.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2010 Sergey A. Osokin
.\" Copyright (C) Nginx, Inc.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE AUTHOR AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"
.Dd June 16, 2015
.Dt NGINX 8
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm nginx
.Nd "HTTP and reverse proxy server, mail proxy server"
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl ?hqTtVv
.Op Fl c Ar file
.Op Fl g Ar directives
.Op Fl p Ar prefix
.Op Fl s Ar signal
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
(pronounced
.Dq engine x )
is an HTTP and reverse proxy server, as well as a mail proxy server.
It is known for its high performance, stability, rich feature set, simple
configuration, and low resource consumption.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width ".Fl d Ar directives"
.It Fl ?\& , h
Print help.
.It Fl c Ar file
Use an alternative configuration
.Ar file .
.It Fl g Ar directives
Set global configuration directives.
See
.Sx EXAMPLES
for details.
.It Fl p Ar prefix
Set the prefix path.
The default value is
.Pa %%PREFIX%% .
.It Fl q
Suppress non-error messages during configuration testing.
.It Fl s Ar signal
Send a signal to the master process.
The argument
.Ar signal
can be one of:
.Cm stop , quit , reopen , reload .
The following table shows the corresponding system signals:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width ".Cm reopen" -compact
.It Cm stop
.Dv SIGTERM
.It Cm quit
.Dv SIGQUIT
.It Cm reopen
.Dv SIGUSR1
.It Cm reload
.Dv SIGHUP
.El
.It Fl t
Do not run, just test the configuration file.
.Nm
checks the configuration file syntax and then tries to open files
referenced in the configuration file.
.It Fl T
Same as -t, but additionally dumps configuration files to stdout.
.It Fl V
Print the
.Nm
version, compiler version, and
.Pa configure
script parameters.
.It Fl v
Print the
.Nm
version.
.El
.Sh SIGNALS
The master process of
.Nm
can handle the following signals:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width ".Dv SIGINT , SIGTERM" -compact
.It Dv SIGINT , SIGTERM
Shut down quickly.
.It Dv SIGHUP
Reload configuration, start the new worker process with a new
configuration, and gracefully shut down old worker processes.
.It Dv SIGQUIT
Shut down gracefully.
.It Dv SIGUSR1
Reopen log files.
.It Dv SIGUSR2
Upgrade the
.Nm
executable on the fly.
.It Dv SIGWINCH
Shut down worker processes gracefully.
.El
.Pp
While there is no need to explicitly control worker processes normally,
they support some signals too:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width ".Dv SIGINT , SIGTERM" -compact
.It Dv SIGTERM
Shut down quickly.
.It Dv SIGQUIT
Shut down gracefully.
.It Dv SIGUSR1
Reopen log files.
.El
.Sh DEBUGGING LOG
To enable a debugging log, reconfigure
.Nm
to build with debugging:
.Pp
.Dl "./configure --with-debug ..."
.Pp
and then set the
.Cm debug
level of the
.Va error_log :
.Pp
.Dl "error_log /path/to/log debug;"
.Pp
It is also possible to enable the debugging for a particular IP address:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
events {
	debug_connection 127.0.0.1;
}
.Ed
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
The
.Ev NGINX
environment variable is used internally by
.Nm
and should not be set directly by the user.
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width indent
.It Pa %%PID_PATH%%
Contains the process ID of
.Nm .
The contents of this file are not sensitive, so it can be world-readable.
.It Pa %%CONF_PATH%%
The main configuration file.
.It Pa %%ERROR_LOG_PATH%%
Error log file.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
Exit status is 0 on success, or 1 if the command fails.
.Sh EXAMPLES
Test configuration file
.Pa ~/mynginx.conf
with global directives for PID and quantity of worker processes:
.Bd -literal -offset indent
nginx -t -c ~/mynginx.conf \e
	-g "pid /var/run/mynginx.pid; worker_processes 2;"
.Ed
.Sh SEE ALSO
.\"Xr nginx.conf 5
.\"Pp
Documentation at
.Pa http://nginx.org/en/docs/ .
.Pp
For questions and technical support, please refer to
.Pa http://nginx.org/en/support.html .
.Sh HISTORY
Development of
.Nm
started in 2002, with the first public release on October 4, 2004.
.Sh AUTHORS
.An -nosplit
.An Igor Sysoev Aq igor@sysoev.ru .
.Pp
This manual page was originally written by
.An Sergey A. Osokin Aq osa@FreeBSD.org.ru
as a result of compiling many
.Nm
documents from all over the world.
